Postrelease the games director Hidetaka Miyazaki contemplated adding an easier difficulty level saying Dark Souls is rather difficult and a number of people may hesitate to play.
This fact is really sad to me and I am thinking about whether I should prepare another difficulty that everyone can complete or carefully send all gamers the messages behind our difficult games.
Namco Bandai claimed Miyazakis statement was mistranslated and should have read This fact is really sad to me and I am thinking about how to make everyone complete the game while maintaining the current difficulty and carefully send all gamers the messages behind it.
Namco Bandais yearly financial report stated that the game sold 1.19 million units in the United States and Europe by March 2012.
FromSoftware announced in April 2013 that the game had sold 2.37 million units worldwide.
In GameSpys review the port was referred to as shabby citing the games limit of 30 frames per second poor mouse and keyboard controls and nonadjustable resolution but the expanded content was praised giving the game an overall favorable review.
Eurogamer also commented on the quality of the port stating Dark Souls Prepare to Die Edition does not come with the technical options you would expect from a wellengineered PC game because its a port of a console game and thats all FromSoftware ever promised to deliver.
Anyone who passes up Dark Souls for this reason is cutting off their nose to spite their neckbeard of a face.
One of the producers of Dark Souls II Takeshi Miyazoe responded to the criticism of the PC version by saying
This is going to sound bad but our main priority was to get the game onto the PC as fast as possible because people wanted it on the PC.
The PC market in Japan is so minimal that originally there were no plans to make it on the PC but with the strong petition from the North American and European fans even with the lack of experience of working on a PC platform we still did our best to try to get it out as fast as possible.
The problems were expected to a certain extent.
We did know there were PCspecific features like keymapping and use of the mouse and keyboard high resolution and higher frame rate stuff like that but...
Its not that we ignored it but it would have taken too much time for us to implement it test it and get it up to the level people expected.
It was more of a publisher Namco Bandai decision to say Guys dont worry about thislets just get it out and see how this works on PC.
Game Revolution gave Dark Souls the Community Choice Game of the Year award.
IncGamers also gave it the Game of the Year award.
QGames Dylan Cuthbert and Double Fine Productions Brad Muir chose Dark Souls as Game of the Year.
Electronic Gaming Monthlys Eric L.
Patterson chose it as Game of the Year.
GameTrailers gave it the Best RolePlaying Game award while also nominating it for the Best Multiplayer Game Best Trailer and Game of the Year awards.
GameZone gave the game the Best ActionAdventure award and chose it as the runnerup for the Best RPG award.
The Daily Telegraph gave the game the Best Integration of Online Features award and nominated it for the awards of Best Director Hidetaka Miyazaki Best Level Design Best Sound Design Best Original Score Motoi Sakuraba Best Developer FromSoftware and Game of the Year.
TeamXbox gave it an honorable mention as the runnerup for the Best RPG award.
1UP.com gave it the Most Rewarding Game award.
Game Informer gave it the award for Best Boss Fight Sif.
It also received the Best Boss Fights awards from GameSpot including both the Editors Choice and Readers Choice awards.
Famitsu gave it an Award of Excellence in its 2012 awards ceremony.
In 2013 Digital Spy named Dark Souls the best game of its console generation.
In 2014 Edge magazine named Dark Souls the best game of the seventh generation of games consoles noting that while some may initially tire of it Weve yet to meet a single player for whom persistence has not been enough to transform apathy into allconsuming love.In September 2015 Dark Souls topped the magazines special issue The 100 Greatest Videogames.
In 2015 the game placed first on GamesRadars The 100 best games ever list.
The game also placed first on USgamers The 15 Best Games Since 2000 list.
The game was titled the Best RPG on PC by Rock Paper Shotgun.
In 2016 Dark Souls placed fifth on PC Gamers Best RPGs of all time list.
Dark Souls is considered to be among the most important titles released during the seventh generation of consoles.
Games said to have been influenced by Dark Souls include Destiny Alienation Lords of the Fallen Salt and Sanctuary Shovel Knight Titan Souls Enter the Gungeon The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt and Nioh.citation needed
A sequel Dark Souls II was announced at the Spike Video Game Awards on December 7 2012 for release on Microsoft Windows PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360.
Amid rumors of a possible decrease in the difficulty of the series due to comments made by the new director to Edge Brian Hong of Bandai Namco assured fans during the Electronic Entertainment Expo that Dark Souls II would be viciously hard.
Dark Souls II was released on March 11 2014 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 and for the PC on April 25 2014.
An updated version of the sequel subtitled Scholar of the First Sin released the next year for the same platforms as well as the Xbox One and PlayStation 4.
The third title of the series Dark Souls III was announced on the Electronic Entertainment Expo E3 2015 and was released in early 2016.
A Dark Souls board game was licensed to Steamforged Games which sold it through Kickststarter in 2016.
The campaign raised more than 5.4 million making it one of the 20 highest funded projects of all time.